--- 
title: Perceptions and other missed opportunities
layout: post
author: Jacobo Blanco
date: 14-09-2015
--- 

So I'm in Dublin for the day and since the battery on my laptop is dead I'm using my iPad for the very first time for some real *work* lets see how this goes!

I've been thinking a lot lately about the effects of perceptions on our ability to do things. Depending on your particular chemical brain balance the same situation can seem like an opportunity or a calamity. It's seems like all those great evolutionary traits that have protected us from harm in the Savannah now lead us to mess up an interview or avoid key opportunities.
Our brains, it seems are rather stupid, it can't tell the difference between a large cat in the bush and an interviewer in a London office. Our reaction is visceral, cripling, sometimes physically painful, and more than anything completely counter-productive. 
On the other hand there are a lot of things we can do to improve our ability to perform and concentrate, one [study](http://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=43005) by Amy Cuddy showed that taking a so-called power-pose can have a significant effect on people's brain chemistry, their confidence, and therefore their ability to perform in formal interviews. How stupid is that? Standing like superman or sitting back on a chair for a few minutes before an interview can actually be the difference between you landing the role or not.
Another really popular concept in sports is the concept of visualisation. Simply put picturing yourself going through the motions in your sport, like traversing a luge course, leading to a successful outcome has a significant affect on your performance. I suspect this technique can be used in every day lives to rehearse through conversations, presentations, and interviews.
It seems as though everything in life is about preception; good, bad, it's all arbitrary and self-defined. Why do you want to buy a bigger TV? Because it will make me happy, and happy is good. Why don't you want to embarrass yourself? Because it make me sad and that's bad. We define what is good or bad and are then tormented by those definitions. 
I'm not sure where this thread of thinking leads, but it has certainly made me reevaluate many priorities in my life, and made me realise what is most important to me. It also helps to be a physicist and now just how small and insignificant we are, the universe is constantly changing and we are but a small part in that. The truth is that nothing matter and everything matters because you say it does, so when you have a bad day realise that there is no such thing and that it's simply a label that you put on your experience. Don't let those labels stop you from living and experiencing the things that are truly important to you.