---
title: "Sky Diaries: 2015 Edition"
date: "2016-02-13 07:09:56"
layout: post
---

I have this fascination with the sky. Perhaps it started when I moved to the UK, where the weather is bad enough that you may not see the sky for months at a time. Maybe it's because the sky dictates so much of our day, or perhaps it's because it's this huge and awesome feature of nature. Regardless, I tend to take a lot of photos which feature the sky as a primary protagonist. 

I decided to collate a few of those as a way of telling the story of a given year in terms of sky photos, and I've given it a terrible cheesy name: Sky Diaries. So here is the Sky Diary for 2015.

This year has been pretty big for me, I finished my PhD and moved to Ireland.

## UK to Ireland

We start our journey with the last few days in the UK. It's my least favourite image of the bunch, but perhaps this is fine. I'm saying goodbye to a place I called my home for 8+ years, and that's a little ugly.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/sky-last-day-uk.jpg" description="Last Hurrah" %}

Before moving to Cork my girlfriend and I travelled to the city to check it out. We had a few beautiful sunny days, lucky for a country not known for it's sunny climate.

The city centre is delimited by the branches of the river Lee. This picture was taken off one of the connecting bridges on the north side of the city. The centre here is located on the left-hand side. Funny thing is we later moved to an apartment on the banks of this very branch. You can almost see it in the distance.

I'm not biased or anything but I think that the north branch offers some of the nicest views in the city.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/visiting-cork.jpg" description="Sky and Lee" %}

I usually like to feature some buildings or natural scenery in my sky photos to give a sense of location. Modern architecture is particularly great because the sharp angles and simple patterns contrast really well against puffy clouds.

Renting a place in Cork was very difficult with landlords spoiled for prospective tennants. We found a place that we liked and so we went down to the estate agents office to make sure we got an apartment we liked. This picture was taken in a suburb called Douglas near their office.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/moving-in-cork.jpg" description="Moving to Cork" %}

Ireland is known for it's lush rolling green hills and I am lucky enough to work in a huge facility located between farmland. Every day I am rewarded with great scenery as I ride the bus to work. It's a shame that the weather is rarely as nice as in the shot below. This was taken during my first few days.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/first-days-at-work.jpg" description="Going to Work" %}

We were lucky enough to get some great sunny days when we first moved to Cork. I took this photo just outside my apartment building. The gradient in the sky is great, there wasn't a single cloud in the sky that day which made the effect that much sharper. It was freaking freezing however.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/gradients.jpg" description="Sharp Gradient" %}

## Life in Ireland

The weather can turn pretty drastically in a matter of minutes around here. This shot again taken right outside my building is a great example of quickly things can change.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/fifty-fifty.jpg" description="Fifty Fifty" %}

The next shot was taken from the west coast of Ireland. My brother, my girlfriend and I went out on a guided tour of the Ring of Kerry. The tour was a terrible series of tourist traps (€13 for Irish coffee anybody?) guided by a lady who just would not stop talking about other tours. The views however were absolutely stunning. I decided to pick a single photo that featured the most sky out of all the photos I'd taken during that trip.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/visiting-kerry.jpg" description="Kerrying about it" %}

With the days getting shorter during the winter, I get a chance to view the sunrise just as I am getting to work. You might recognize the same fields from the picture above. I wish I'd moved to the other side of the bus to take this shot. Nevertheless I love how the low angle light from the sun plays with the fog to create multiple layers in the scenery.
 
{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/beautiful-sunrise.jpg" description="Beautiful Sunrise" %}

## From our living room

Some of the best shots were taken from our own living room. Living on the third floor in a town made of small buildings means you can get some great panomaric views of the city's rooftops.

The following photos feature the same skyline in three very different conditions.

It had just rained and all the rooftops were starting to dry out. The light from sun was just bouncing off the buildings. You can see that the clouds had moved south just over the horizon. On either side you can see the two largest churches in Cork.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/strong-sun-cork.jpg" description="Strong sun" %}

The next one was taken as the sun was setting. The clouds look like orange and pink brush strokes made by the windws against the blue sky canvas.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/beautiful-dusk.jpg" description="Beautiful Dusk" %}

The following probably doesn't count as a sky photo since you can't see the sky at all. Nevertheless I liked the contrast against the last two images. The fog was unbelievably thick; you couldn't see a damn thing. It was a little scary.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/cork-fog.jpg" description="Fogged" %}

## Finishing my PhD

The biggest event of the year for me was my graduation. My parents and brothers flew into out to London for the event and we got to spend a few days together in the city. It was a great trip and while the photos might not be my favourite, they remind me of a very happy time for me.

This shot is a bit of a cheat. I didn't actually take this photo. My brother did. I have an excuse though, I was busy graduating.

This was taken from the gardens of the Founder's building at Royal Holloway. The statue of the university's founder, Thomas Holloway, stands in stark contrast against a cloudy sky.

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/graduation.jpg" description="Graduation" %}

We got to see so much of London and had some beautiful days. Even though I'd lived in the UK for many years I never visited the Royal Observatory. A bit of a faux pas for a physicist really. We fixed this with a great day long trip to Greenwich, the maritime museum and the royal observatory. I love that you can see the city in the back and the telescope dome prominently against a wispy cloudy sky. 

{% include image.html url="/img/skies-2015/visiting-royal-observatory.jpg" description="Royal Observatory" %}

I look forward to building up my collection of 2016 skies. Who knows what the future will bring, but not matter what happens you can be sure that there will be some clouds and sunny days ahead. Thanks for taking the time to read. As usual have a great day!
